Give Me 13 Minutes & I'll Grow Your App
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v1f9iYZ2GhQ

If your app isn't growing fast enough,
you're probably thinking, "We need more
viral marketing, more growth hacks,
[music] maybe more paid ads." But what
most founders miss is that your app
itself can actually do the growth work
for you if you design it correctly. So,
in this video, I'm going to take a
decade of experience designing for
million-doll startups and global tech
giants to break down the fourstep
product funnel that you can use to
achieve more predictable and sustainable
growth with your app. We're going to
start from the top of the funnel with
lowhanging quick wins and then move all
the way down to the bottom of the funnel
for the more expert level tweaks that
I'm confident you haven't thought about
in this way before. Now, let's be real.
As founders, we're almost programmed to
think that growth automatically equals
spending more on ads, doing more
marketing, getting more traffic. Those
are the things, right? Essentially, we
just want to pump more people through
the door. But what often ends up
happening with this mindset is that we
pour money into this bucket that has a
hole in the bottom. So even if the
overall ad spend has a positive ROI,
we're missing so much potential revenue.
And the first and easiest way to regain
that revenue is with something I call
the 3 secondond test. Your app's first
impression. This is crazy powerful. And
while most founders think they nail
this, they usually don't. You see,
studies show that people form
impressions in 50 milliseconds and they
make trust decisions in less than 3
seconds. And the vast majority of that
first impression is driven by visual
design. The dangerous part is that
getting this first impression wrong
could scare away 20 to 30% of new users
immediately. Just like that, 20 to 30%
of potential revenue gone. Before we go
into the core problem and how to fix it,
if you want to discuss how to boost your
own business metrics through design,
check out our free strategy calls in the
link down below. Now, here's what
generally goes wrong with that first
impression. If you really study bad top
offunnel moments carefully, you'll start
noticing a clear pattern. They're often
lacking basic design fundamentals.
They're cluttered. They've got poor
hierarchy, inconsistent spacing, imagery
that looks kind of cheap and random copy
that doesn't effectively communicate the
outcome. All this combined tells the
story of why 99% of apps don't reach
real commercial success. Because science
proves that even if users have no design
background, not even a design eye, they
feel these issues subconsciously and it
makes them lose trust in your company.
But the crazy part is fixing this
doesn't have to be rocket science. For
example, when we redesigned a recent
client website, we focused on five
things. clean hierarchy, generous
spacing, professional imagery that
supports the headline, balanced
typography, and outcome focused copy
that is clear. For another recent
project we worked on, we designed their
app store screenshots as part of their
app design. And we did the exact same
thing. We focused on clean hierarchy,
generous spacing, professional imagery,
and balanced typography with outcome
focused copy. If you nail those, you're
almost guaranteed to make a great first
impression because it's going to look
professional and ultimately it's going
to feel trustworthy for your users. Try
to always ask yourself, is my top
offunnel a trust builder or a trust
killer? Because if it's not a trust
builder, you're losing out on a lot of
users who'll just go to a competitor
they can trust. But with that said, even
when you manage to make your top of
funnel trustworthy, you're up for the
next and even bigger challenge. It's
something I call finding your friction
sweet spots. This is actually a concept
that can be applied across your entire
app. But since generally the first
interaction point for app users is going
to be the onboarding, let's start with
that. You see something I realized when
talking to founders during the strategy
calls. By the way, again, if you're
interested in talking design strategy
for your app, check the link below. is
that most of the times your biggest win
will be to just shorten your onboarding
down to the bare bones. Like just reduce
the steps as much as possible. But while
that's good advice, it won't always take
you all the way because it's a bit of a
simplification. UX design is not about
removing all the friction. It's about
finding the right level of friction.
Generally, apps will do too much. Hence
the general advice of just strip it
down. But some apps will actually strip
it down and then they end up confusing
users because they're not creating that
friction sweet spot. And it's tricky.
Too much friction and users give up. Too
little friction. Well, then they're not
effectively guided to the value which
also makes them give up. Let me give you
some examples to show it in practice.
With Spark app, we made the welcome
screen into an IG story style carousel
to reinforce the value proposition
without bloating the onboarding. Then we
made the actual card setup, aka the
users download the app, show up within
the first five screens, so it wouldn't
take them too long to reach it. With a
crypto trading platform, instead of
overwhelming the user with very detailed
financial data breakdowns everywhere, we
used expanded tool tips to hide
secondary but still important data. And
the natural instinct here could be to
just show all the data with the
reasoning that we want to remove
friction or have the ID story style
carousel be individual screens in the
onboarding sequence with the reasoning
that we want the user to see each slide
so that they understand the value. But
this wouldn't be the friction sweet spot
in our cases. The lesson here is that
productled growth doesn't come from
removing all friction. It comes from
finding the sweet spot where you show
just enough to create value without
overwhelming users. Whether you design
an expanded tool tip or an ID story
carousel all depends on the balance you
need to strike with your app. And then
once you've mastered that balance and
users are really engaging with your core
features, you unlock one of the most
underrated growth opportunities. a step
I call win mapping. When the user is
actively using your products, you have
an opportunity to engage them enough to
turn them into paying customers or even
better advocates. But timing is
everything here, which is why win
mapping relies heavily on the psychology
principle called the peak end rule. I
have a whole video dedicated to this
rule only that you can watch later. But
in a nutshell, the peak rule shows us
that people judge entire experiences by
one, the most intense moment, and two,
the ending moment, not the average of
all moments. This means that the timing
of you asking users for stuff matters
much more than the ask itself. And the
reason this is important for win mapping
is because users are most receptive to
asks right after meaningful wins in your
app. And here's where I see many
founders miss the mark completely.
They'll ask for upgrades for ratings and
shares at random moments or at least not
super strategic moments. I see this in
strategy calls again and again. payw
walls, tutorials, forced flows. They're
usually presented to users when they're
more likely to be frustrated or
confused, not when they're experiencing
peak satisfaction in the app. And that's
a big mistake. For example, when
designing the app for a big lending and
borrowing platform during the early UX
phases, we mapped where in the different
flows users experience the biggest wins
or the highest peaks. We then took those
moments and amplified them with emotion,
which we'll go deeper into in a little
bit. And as a result, we get a moment
that feels special, a moment that
amplifies the user's win, which in turn
makes them more likely to return the
favor or even selfishly brag about their
accomplishment. So, you need to sit down
and map out your app's biggest win
moments and then become very strategic
about how you take advantage of them.
Because if you do it right, you can turn
your app into a viral engine that brings
new users onto itself. But to be totally
fair, just mapping out the wins and
being strategic about asks might not
always be enough. You see, win mapping
is the most effective when combined with
step number four, emotional design. This
is the cherry on the top of your app.
This is what transforms good apps into
unforgettable experiences. And if you
watch my videos, you know that I rave
about this a lot. But there's a reason
for that. It's really freaking powerful.
Research shows that designs which
deliberately evoke positive feelings
through motion, feedback, and human
touches are remembered, recommended, and
revisited far more than purely
functional ones. Essentially, this
emotional layer is what can really help
create that powerful word of mouth
growth for your app. But most apps don't
get to experience that because they stop
at functional. Even if they manage to
solve the problem, they create no
emotional connection. So users complete
tasks but feel no attachment to the
experience. And without that emotional
attachment, they have no real reason to
not just switch to a competitor on a
Black Friday sale. So what do we do?
Well, we need to give them such a high
quality reinforcing experience in the
right moments that our app becomes
irreplaceable for them. With one of our
current AI clients, we built emotional
design into the core of the experience.
We designed these voice connected audio
waves to make standard AI transcription
tech feel more alive and responsive. I
know it's a seemingly small touch, but
it's a touch that make their app feel
and look different and better than the
competition. It's details like this that
makes them stand out, that makes them
really connect with users, and that has
their users raving about them. Now,
let's summarize. If you want a great
shot at achieving productled growth,
remember these four steps. One, the
3-second test. Design for immediate
trust. Two, the friction sweet spot.
Find the right balance of information
disclosure across your whole app. Three,
win mapping. Map the peak moments and
make them count. And four, emotional
design. Create long-term stickiness and
loyalty through emotion. Now, for the
last time, for this video at least, if
you found this valuable and you want us
to audit your app's funnel or talk about
conversion optimization or just design
strategy overall, the call link is still
in the description below. And if you're
interested in diving deep into emotional
design, check out this video. Now, until
the next one, have a great life.
