Do Companies Really Need Designers Anymore?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bOm9GDv96Tk

Do companies really need designers
anymore? Because today, everyone can
generate logos, landing pages, and even
app flows in minutes. And as someone
who's been designing for 10 plus years,
it's crazy to witness how the value of
design as a skill is rapidly changing.
Which brings us to this video's topic.
If AI can design everything, do we still
need designers? Well, the answer is it
depends. And before we get to a detailed
breakdown of each design area and
whether you can rely on AI fully, partly
or not at all, let's start by looking at
what modern AI design tools can get you
today. If you need marketing visuals,
pop it into Midourney or Chat GBT or
both and you have a stunning campaign
going in minutes. If you want a landing
page, just generate a base in Reloom,
ship it over to Figma, and then publish
with Figma sites. Or if you need to try
an app flow, play around a few minutes
with Google Stitch or Lovable, and
you'll have something halfway decent in
again, minutes. And I'm mentioning a
bunch of different tools here, but in
reality, what tool you use doesn't
really matter. The point is, if you have
a design task, there's probably a tool
out there that can get you 80% of the
way fast. And this is a great win for
solo founders and small teams since it's
no longer a huge risk to launch
something. You have more power than ever
to build stuff by yourself without the
need for a designer or even a developer.
But this also begs the question, with
all of this horsepower at your
fingertips, why is it that so many
products still feel a little off and
don't go anywhere? Well, it's because
the last 20%, the part that actually
builds traction, doesn't come from a
prompt yet. It all comes back to one
familiar idea, the kind that's been
repeated so often, it almost sounds like
a cliche at this point. Simon Synynics
start with why is about understanding
the reason behind what you're doing. The
purpose, not the what or the how, but
why it matters in the first place. And
in design, especially product design,
this exact concept is critical. Back
when I was a designer at Spotify, I
worked with an excellent designer named
Daniel, who quietly and kind of brutally
taught me this very lesson. Because
anytime I showed him a prototype or a UI
sketch, he'd just look at it silently
for a few seconds and then ask why. It
asked why so many times that I
eventually realized, I hadn't thought
deeply enough about many of the design
choices I was making. So, while it was
humbling, it was also the best design
lesson I've had in my career. And it's a
lesson AI still hasn't really learned.
AI is pretty good at producing what
something should look like and
surprisingly good at showing how to
structure it, but it's still not at a
place where it can replace that human
instinct to ask the right questions at
the right time. And that gap between
what looks correct and what actually
works, well, that's where real product
breakthroughs often happen. Because yes,
good design looks nice, but great design
solves real problems. Talking about real
problems, if you have some kind of
product, web, or brand design problem,
we offer free strategy calls to a few
businesses per month at SIPAP. So, if
that could be helpful for you, check out
the link below. Anyways, back to the
point. When you deeply understand a
problem, you'll find friction points
that AI just can't see at the moment.
Because some things can't be read just
from data and get fixed with general
patterns. Some things still require a
human understanding of humans. I'm
talking about the subtle stuff that
shows up in misclicks or in moments of
hesitation where confidence should be
during a user test or delight where you
didn't expect it. And this kind of
nuance comes from experience,
observation, and in some cases
intuition. I've talked extensively about
Raycast in another video, but they're a
great example here. They didn't just
build a product on the back of great UX.
They deeply understood how their users
think. Instead of layering on features
and following established rules, they
re-imagined the way people interact with
their computers. That couldn't come from
prompting. That could only come from
understanding users better than they
understand themselves. And those kinds
of experiences are built by people who
are capable of deep product thinking
which usually is a senior and strategic
designer. Let's take a look at this
table to visualize it. For marketing,
you can get away without a designer
today. In most cases, it might not be as
pretty, but you can definitely create
converting ads and campaigns by
yourself. And I've seen that firsthand
back when I was the only designer at one
of crypto's biggest bridge protocols. I
used Midjourney a lot. We got to a point
where the marketing team could basically
run ads completely by themselves. All
the creative work without design
intervention and that was thanks to AI
and templates. So here AI is basically
good to go by itself. Then for landing
pages, we have lots of tools that take
us most of the way. A designer still has
a role here since a great landing page
is all about orchestration like marrying
assets with copy like micro interactions
or animations, etc. But a scrappy
founder can probably get something
pretty decent shipped themselves.
Therefore, I'd say that here AI is doing
the 8020 work. But of course, for really
high-end results, you still need a
designer to help you. Now, when it comes
to products and more complex user
interfaces, this is where we get back to
the real need for human intervention.
Because while we have tools like Lovable
and Google Stitch that can just
magically spin up a full UI flow for
you, we're now entering territory where
we can't just blindly rely on the
generic data set that AI is trained on.
The famous oneshot prompts don't really
cut it in this case because of course a
generic data set is going to give you a
generic solution. And generic solutions
probably won't be what your unique users
with their specific problems need. So
while we of course still use AI here, I
personally do it all the time at SIPAP,
the work becomes less about generating
one finished thing and calling it a day
and more about again orchestrating and
iterating based on the needs of your
users. And this is where the highest
leverage wins come from and where the
value of designers still is truly
untouched. piecing everything together
into custom-designed great experiences
that make users love your product. Now,
if you're somewhere between this looks
kind of nice and this still isn't
converting as well as we want with your
product or your website, again, sign up
for the free strategy calls below. I'd
love to chat to you. Until the next one
though, have a great
