5 Tools I Wish I Found Sooner (For Designers)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qmJVN2158Mk

As a designer and agency owner, I try
new tools every month. And in this
video, I'm going to try to save you some
serious research time by sharing the
five tools I wish I used sooner,
including one that helps you turn skills
into income faster. One that presents a
rare chance to raise your rates and
stand out. A tool that I can't believe I
wasn't taking seriously until last year.
One that is a total gamecher for
thinking, writing, and researching. And
lastly, a tool that is quickly becoming
a personal favorite. You can find free
tiers and trials on all of them in the
links below. Now, let's start with a
tool that helps you start earning more
money today. Contra. If this is the
first time you hear of Contra, it's a
tool that has rapidly grown to become
the professional network for jobs and
skills of the future. Contra helps you
as a creative get your work seen and
earn really good money. And it helps me
as an agency owner find top tier talent
to create worldclass work for my
clients. For example, we do lots of
custom animation work in my design
agency, SIPAP. And on Contra, I've been
able to team up with the best Rive
animators you can find on the market.
And if you don't know what Rive is, it's
one of many official partner tools on
Contra and a skill that is rapidly
becoming very high value. So if you're a
creative and you're not yet on Contra
and getting familiar with one of these
high-value tools, there are a bunch of
opportunities for you there. And in
particular, one specific big
opportunity, a tool called Lovable.
Lovable does to full stack coding what
Framer did to pixel perfect design. For
the first time, it's easy. We already
see successful agencies being built on
top of this tool, racking in over 200K
per month by designing and building
internal tools for companies. something
I probably wouldn't have believed before
my recent family trip to Malaga where I
literally built an internal tool for my
brother's company on my phone in three
something hours. I know. Definitely a
holy dang moment that makes it clear
that any designer that takes advantage
of this opportunity and starts using a
tool like Lovable to give their clients
full stack development and design will
make it very easy for themselves to
stand out and make more money in the
process. And if you're interested, I've
got a 30inut crash course video on
lovable that you can check out after
this video if you want to dig deeper
into my personal UI process with this
tool. And talking about UI, that brings
us to the must-have, Mobin. It doesn't
matter if you're just getting started
with design or if you've designed for a
decade. If you're doing UI design, there
is no better tool to use at the start of
a project than Mobin. I'm almost ashamed
with myself that I didn't use this tool
myself heavily until last year because
it's just another one of those cheap
code moments, which maybe should be
obvious considering the world's top
teams are using it and they have a
library of a thousand plus apps that you
can pick from. But how do you use it? Or
how do I use it? Glad you asked. So
instead of spending hours jumping
between sites, signing up with dummy
accounts, downloading apps, and taking
screenshots, I just jump into Mobin and
filter on specific apps, user flows, or
UI elements. If I'm looking for
something specific in the screen, I can
even text search to find exact matches.
Whenever I want to save my inspo, I
usually add screens to collections
inside of Mobin and then use the comment
feature to add my thoughts to it.
However, if you like having everything
inside of Figma instead, you could also
just copy screens with one click and
drop it in there. And that's it. It's
that simple. But while Mobin is the king
of visual design research, it's not made
for general note-taking and broader
research that goes outside of just
websites and apps. And that's where the
notion killer has made its way into my
life. It's a tool called Cortex created
by the brilliant writer and creator Dan
Co. It takes the idea of a second brain
to the next level by allowing you for
the first time to truly take anything
that you note down or save and make it
interconnected. For example, let's say
you're doing research for a design
project. You create a document to start
writing a report about UI insights for
an app you're designing. Then the
microwave blings and you have to leave
the computer. But as you're walking,
inspiration strikes. Instead of running
back to the computer and potentially
forgetting your idea before you've even
had a chance to touch the keyboard, you
bring up Cortex on your phone. Then by
chatting with a Cortex AI assistant,
Kai, you start connecting your idea with
every resource that comes to mind, like
a user interview that you uploaded as a
PDF, a recent UX article you read, and
maybe even a YouTube video you saved as
a resource. All right, inside of Cortex,
the AI will take this input and give you
output based on all of those resources
you included. And this is key because
while other tools, the more stuff you
add into them, they just become clunkier
and more bloated. No, no, no, no. Not
with Cortex here. The more stuff you
add, the more powerful it gets. It makes
it easier than ever to take your notes,
to take your resources, to take anything
really in your life and make it all
connected. Cortex becomes the one source
of truth for your thinking, for your
writing, and for your
research. If it only took care of my
bloated email inbox as well. Or
actually, it doesn't have to because as
of last week, I found my new favorite
tool, Serif AI. If it's one thing that a
takes a lot of my time and b that I
really don't like spending my time on,
it's email. Whether it's categorizing
email or writing responses, as a
creative who just wants to do creative
work, I hate it, but it has to be done.
And luckily with Serif, you can take all
of the heavy lifting off of your
shoulders. I just connect it to my email
account, give it 20-ish minutes to learn
my voice and categorize my inbox, and
then voila. Now, whenever I get an email
that needs a response, I have a
surprisingly good response already
drafted. It even uses my lower caps
writing style, and it becomes one of
those tools where I'm thinking, what did
I do before I had access to this tool?
How did I live my life? Again, the link
to try SIF and all of the other tools
for free is down in the description
below. Now, since this video is all
about the tools I wish I used sooner,
you might also want to check out the
video where I talk about the design
mistakes I wish I knew sooner. It's here
somewhere. Until the next one, have a
great life and we'll talk
