4 levels of UI/UX design (and BIG mistakes to avoid)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86PGRyQjdzQ

I've designed apps and websites for over
a decade. And when I look back at my own
design journey, one thing is clear.
There are patterns to the kinds of
mistakes you make as a designer at every
level of your career. In this video, I
will highlight those patterns of
mistakes, what they are, when they
typically happen, and how to fix them so
that you can reach your next design
level faster. Here's how we'll do it. We
will take a screen from a real client
project in my agency portfolio and
redesign it starting from an unpaid
beginner level, iterating all the way to
a high ticket senior level. For each
level, we will call out the biggest
mistakes while providing resources and
guidelines so that you can avoid them.
And then by the end of the video, we'll
dig into a hidden mistake that even lots
of senior designers make and a solution
that can really set you apart in this AI
era that we're in. Let's get started.
So, at the beginner level, nothing
works. However, this isn't a surprise
since we have less than a year of
experience and we're not getting paid
for our work yet. But let's dive into
why it doesn't work. The first mistake
in this design is something as simple as
the copyrightiting. For example, do we
really need four words to communicate a
user's rewards? And does it make sense
for the button to be about earning
tokens when the action is actually about
claiming voting rewards? Clarity is key
in copyrightiting, and we're not really
nailing it here. Therefore, it's a fail
on the first principle, which brings us
to the visuals. Lots of beginners will
overuse flashy gradients, blur effects,
and other cool visual techniques like
that. And to be fair, even mid-level
designers do this, but the difference is
that they make it work. More on that
later. The best quick tip I can give
here is if you're unsure, opt for
simplicity instead of flashiness. A
simple but clear graph will help a user
much more than a fancy graph that is
hard to understand. In this case, since
we went for fancy and we couldn't pull
it off, it's a fail. But what about the
colors? First off, we're using too much
of a very strong red color, which makes
the UI straight up stressful to look at.
Everything here is screaming for
attention and therefore nothing gets
attention. Not even the things we want
to highlight in the UI. Now to make
coloring a bit easier, try the
603010 approach. 60% of the UI is a
neutral color like white or light gray.
30% of the UI is a complimentary color
like black and 10% of the UI has the
main brand color in this case red. This
UI feels more like a reverse at the
moment. And while that could work here
it doesn't. Now however it's time to
count the font sizes. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Six
different font sizes are used here and
four different font weights. It's
impossible to create a greatl looking UI
with this much variety in the text
department. So here's the easy fix. Try
to reduce those numbers that we just
talked about six and four by at least
two. So four sizes and two weights. That
will take you really far. In this case
though, it's a fail. But we're not done.
We don't need to look super closely to
see that things aren't really aligned in
here. And the things that are aligned
are spaced out randomly. 11 pixels here,
25 pixels here, just random numbers. So,
here's a little trick to improve spacing
quickly. It's called the eightoint grid
system. The main idea is that anytime
you use a number in your design, make it
divisible by 8 or 4. Instead of 25
pixels, use 24. Instead of 11, use 12. I
actually have a full video on this that
you can check out after this one linked
down in the description below. Anyways,
unfortunately, we fail here as well.
That's six out of six fails. A pretty
rough start. Surprisingly though, lots
of progress happens with just one year
of design obsession. Which brings us to
the junior designer. But before we go
there, if you want to learn from even
more realworld projects, you can check
out a full case study of this and other
projects that we've designed at SIPAP in
the link I've shared down in the
description below. Now, time for the
junior designer. Here we have a person
with one, two, maybe 3 years of
experience designing apps and websites.
They're likely either working in-house
somewhere or making anywhere from a
hundred to maybe 500 bucks, doing
smaller design gigs as a freelancer. And
usually copywriting is still a big issue
at this level. We still add unnecessary
words and write labels that don't really
make sense. For example, commit time
sounds like we're committing time
instead of votes. These are small
details that make a lot of difference if
we improve it. So, how do we do that?
The easiest solution nowadays is just to
take a screenshot of your UI, pop it
into chat GPT, and then feed it some
more context on the project, emphasizing
that you want copy that is clear but
short. For now, though, it's still a
fail. But that means that we get a shot
at redemption for the visuals. And here
we've actually stepped it up. Now, we
understand that visuals primarily serve
a communication purpose, especially if
it's a graph like in this case. And the
red dot in contrast to the gray bars
here communicates to the user, this is a
thing we want you to focus on. Sadly
though, we still think visuals
absolutely need a trendy skumorphic
effect with 45 layers of shadows. But
it's fine. We're still learning. So, a
first half pass and we're back to the
colors. As juniors, we have enough
experience to know that mixing colors
too freely easily turns into a disaster.
We also understand that overusing a
color could work against you if you want
to assign meaning to colors. So, we're
generally more passive when it comes to
color usage, which actually is a very
good thing. And one of the most
important learnings for creating clean,
professional interfaces, but it's a
balance. Here, we went from a UI that
overused our red main color to a UI that
now barely uses any of it, which makes
it a bit dull and therefore just a half
pass. In terms of font sizes, we still
have issues. Too big sizes, too small
sizes, too many sizes. It still happens
at this level, understandably. So,
sadly, it's a pretty quick fail here
that segus into spacing and structure
again, and we've made progress. But it's
evident that there's still no calculated
approach to how we space or structure
elements. pixel values are still a bit
random, which tells me that someone
forgot to study the eightoint grid
method, so it's a faily fail. That puts
us at two out of five half passes. And
while that might not seem great, we're
moving in the right direction here. The
design we saw isn't close to be worth
serious money, but things are about to
change at our next stage, the mid level.
Before we jump into that though, I'm
curious. How would you score your own
design skills? And how many years of
experience do you have? Let me know in
the comments. Now things start to get
interesting. We have somewhere between 3
and 6 years of design experience, and we
can potentially at this point rack in 8
to 10k USD per month with projects
likely ranging anywhere from 3 to 6K.
And this is clearly reflected in the
design. The copywriting is now even
clearer. There's a sense of it being
written for an actual user. It still
might not be the prettiest, but it
definitely looks better, which means
that we have our first half pass on
copy. But what about the visuals? They
look good, maybe a bit overworked, which
is something we usually see with
mid-level designers. Just like beginners
would add and add and add to the
rituals, designers at the mid level can
sometimes gravitate back towards that
same behavior. At this point of their
career though, they have a much more
trained design eye, which allows them to
make it work. So, while it's not
perfect, it's clearly a half pass, which
means we're stepping into colors with
momentum. As a mid-level designer, we
know that UIs don't need all the colors
of the rainbow to look good. We know how
to balance the UI by using different
shades or tints of one color instead of
multiple different colors. If you want
pro tips on shading and tinting, check
out Eric D. Kennedy's article that I
linked down below. Anyways, it's a good
old half pass. And we're back at the
point where the junior still tripped up,
the font department. But now, for the
first time, we understand how to use
fonts in a UI. We have less sizes, have
less weights, and while some sizes and
weights might still be a bit off, it's
starting to look cleaner. Half pass. And
onto the last point before we reach the
senior level and the hidden mistake. And
for spacing and structure, it's looking
pretty good. Related elements are
grouped nicely. We've started to use a
spacing system like the 8oint grid. And
as a result, the UI feels more
professional. It's not entirely cooked
like the young crowd might say, but it's
definitely a half pass, which brings us
to five out of five half passes. And the
final boss. As a senior designer, you
have at least seven years of experience,
which means you have designed so many
websites and apps that you're a safe bet
for clients that want both beautiful
design, but also design that actually
drives business metrics. That's why you
will see deals all the way from 20K to
over 100K from senior designers. Sounds
crazy. Let's dive into how it's
possible. First of all, the difference
in copyrightiting here might look
subtle, but when we actually study the
words and the length of the words, it
all just harmonizes so much better
because as a senior, we find ways to
communicate better with less. We know
that we don't need to write last 10
votes when we have a big label right
above saying voting or claim um if we
have a heading saying um rewards. And by
not repeating the same words, we reduce
cognitive load and visual clutter
without sacrificing clarity. And I know
that might sound like a minor detail,
but when you scale this across a full
app is a massive difference. So, we have
our first full pass and we're ready to
talk about the visuals again. They are
now clearly made with careful thought.
We add emphasis only to what matters and
we help the user make immediate
connections between different parts of
the UI by reusing visual patterns. For
example, here the commit part of the UI
gets connected to the current voting
period in the graph because we're using
the same pulsing circle. We're achieving
more with less. It's a full pass. But
what about the colors? Well, here we
basically just simplified what the
mid-level designer did. Instead of
gradients, just simple flat colors.
Instead of a button that screams error
states, we're saving the red color for
the graph. the rewards icon and the
commit indicator. It's nicer on the eyes
while calling attention to the right
things even more effectively. It's our
third full pass, which brings us back to
the fonts. We're finally down to only
four font sizes and two font weights.
And you can see here that we introduced
a monospace version of the font for big
numbers. And to avoid collision when
this reward number grows, we reuse the
heading size from the voting label for
our decimal fractions. And that's all it
takes for full passing again as we bring
out our rulers. And dang, this is what
we call structure. Elements are grouped
logically. Spacing is deliberate between
elements, inside elements, everywhere.
Those seven plus years of experience are
becoming really evident. Full freaking
pass were five out of five full score.
But what about that hidden mistake that
even senior designers make? Well, I'm
glad you brought it up. Let's talk about
it. This mistake doesn't have anything
to do with static UI or UX skills
because as you saw, senior designers are
capable of creating greatl lookinging,
well functioning interfaces. But thanks
to AI, in the coming years, we're going
to see an exponential increase in the
amount of apps that are available to us,
which means that designing memorable
experiences that connects us with
technology is going to be the easiest
way to stand out as a designer. And the
mistake most designers make, again,
seniors included, is that we get stuck
just focusing on static images. But to
create a true experience, we need to
treat UI design more like a movie. We
need to piece static screens together in
a way that makes the app a pleasure to
use. That's how we create truly
delightful apps and as a result also
drastically increase our price tags as
designers. Look at Phantom Wallet,
Airbnb, and even Dual Lingo. Those are
all great examples of apps that have
gone that extra mile, which raises the
question, how do you achieve this? Well,
that is a topic that is out of scope for
this video. But luckily, if you're
interested in a breakdown of these kinds
of apps and how they create memorable
experiences, I have a video on that here
that you can check out. Now, until the
next one, I want you to have an amazing
everything and we'll talk
