The Secret Trick For Amazing Animations in Figma
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bdR3p6PvYQQ

Here are two versions of the same Figma
animation. One that looks pretty
ordinary and one that looks very alive.
The difference, the latter is using
spring animations. And in this tutorial,
I will teach you everything you need to
know about it so that you can jump
straight back into Figma once we're done
here. So the first thing we should
address here is bessier traditional
bessier animations versus spring
animations.
And when it comes to bessier animations,
what we are allowed to do is basically
to specify how an object starts
animating and how it ends animating. And
if we go into the prototyping settings
here, we choose smart animate and then
custom basier. You can see that we have
these handles. This is the starting
handle. I can drag this like this and
we're going to have this smooth as end.
I can do this. It's going to be a bounce
in the beginning. And then the handle
here is going to determine how the end
behaves. So maybe it bounces in the end
as well. Now, if we play this, you can
see that we have the bounce in the
beginning and the bounce in the end. If
we go back here and we talk a bit about
the animations pros and cons, I would
say that basier animations are easier to
understand and use like these handles
and how that works in the UI is pretty
is pretty straightforward.
The cons though are that it can be a
little tricky to perfect these
animations. You might have cases where
it just stops a little bit weirdly or
some kind of um turn just feels
unnatural. They also are a bit more
generic and they feel lifeless in some
cases which brings us to spring
animations. And spring animations are
designed to act like realworld objects.
So they adhere to real world physics.
So if we go into these here and I click
this, we go to smart animate custom
spring in the bottom of the dropdown.
You can see that we have these units
here. We have stiffness, damping, and
mass. We're going to get more into these
in just a moment. So stay tuned for
that. But what this allows us to do is
to create animations that looks more
like this. more lifeful, more smooth,
more cool.
And I would say that the pros here are,
like I said, they look more beautiful.
They look more lifeful. The cons are or
the con is that it's a bit harder to
understand, hence this tutorial.
So,
let's get into custom spring animations
101. Stiffness.
What does that mean for us? Well, the
stiffness influences the number of
bounces in the animation and it can be
edited through dragging the graph. So,
if we click here, I can change the
stiffness by dragging this on the
horizontal axis. You can see how the
stiffness changes as I drag it. It's
less when I drag it to the right and
more when I drag it to the left. That's
how we manipulate the stiffness. You can
see the preview here how it looks. There
it's less stiff. Here it's more stiff.
Then we have mass. What does mass mean
for us? The mass influences the speed of
the animation and the height of the
bounce. How much does it bounce? So if
we go in here and we play around with
the mass. So we add a bunch of mass. You
can see that it bounces super highly.
It's as if we would drop a container
from a mountain and it would bounce
because it's a lot of mass. And if we
decrease the mass, it's more like a
feather just staying on the ground
basically when it comes to the ground.
Which brings us to damping.
So what does damping mean for us? The
damping influences the level of spring
in the animation and can be edited by
dragging the graph. So how springy is
our animation? If we go in here, you can
see if I just manipulate the units here,
I increase the damping, then the less
springy it's going to be. If I decrease
it, you can see that it becomes more and
more springy. B just bouncing like that.
So, how do we use these settings in real
life when creating animations?
Well, I have a couple of different
examples here to show you. If we want to
create an aggressive animation, we could
use a bit of stiffness, so it's pretty
stiff. We don't have a lot of damping
because it's going to be hard and the
mass is going to be low. So, it's just
going to quit quickly. And this timing
is pretty low.
So if we play this, you can see that
it's super aggressive, just coming in
super fast and ending fast.
If we want to make it smooth,
we can check here.
Then we can drag down the stiffness. We
add more damping to it and we make it a
bit heavier. And if you remember mass,
the more mass we have, the longer the
animation is. So if we play this,
you can see that it's super smooth.
And the last one is a bit more of a fun
animation.
So if we want to make it more fun, we
can have a bunch of stiffness,
um quite some damping, and a bunch of
mass. So, if we play this and you can
see by the curve here, it's going to be
very bouncy
like this. Kind of like a I get a clown
feeling by this animation. Pretty fun,
pretty crazy, I would say. If you want
more tips on how to create beautiful
animations inside of Figma, then this
playlist is probably for you. Now, until
the next one, have a great life. We'll
talk soon. Ciao.
