Apple’s Dynamic Island Animation in Figma (Beginner Tutorial)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dL-U6bkm0a0

In this video, we'll recreate Apple's
dynamic island feature in Figma, and
we'll cover things like drag
interactions, delays, and click
animations to create something like
this. [music]
Now, I know your time is valuable, so
let's jump straight in. Okay, everyone.
So, we're in Figma and we're going to
look at the end result as a first step
here. But before we go into that, this
file, this Figma file is going to be
available in the comments below. If you
want to follow along during the
tutorial, there's the file. [music] Now,
if we go into this animation and we hit
C so that we see the full animation.
Let's dissect it. Drag interaction.
[music] That's the first thing
happening. We drag this to the top.
Then, if you look here, there's a delay.
And after the delay, [music] you can see
how this thing that we drag goes out of
screen and the pill, the dynamic island
expands in width. We see this little
cover art and this wave icon popping up.
So that's the first part of it. First
interaction, we drag it. That's all
that's happening. Then we have a delay
interaction. And then we have a click
interaction. [music]
So I click it and everything expands. So
this increases in size. We [music] see
the text here. This goes to the right,
this wave icon, and we get these play
[music] buttons and this progress bar.
We click it again, it goes back. So,
that's the full interaction. Now, let's
recreate it. Oh, and if you're not super
familiar with Smart Animate, I have a
video dedicated to just that. So, check
that out and then get back to this video
after if you're not feeling super
confident. So, the creation process
here, what we start with is we just
dissect all the pieces. So, we have the
iPhone screen or the iPhone mockup,
[music]
I should say. We have the phone screen.
We have the music player container. And
we have the dynamic island. Now, I won't
be recreating these from scratch. I'll
just take these pieces and recreate the
animation because that's what this
tutorial is about. So, I'll copy this
frame. Take the iPhone screen. Copy that
as well. Put it inside of the frame. So,
it's inside of the frame here. I'll take
the music player container, put it
inside of the screen here [music]
because this is important. The screen
has clip content and this is going to be
used when we push the music player
container with the drag interaction or
the delayed interaction after the drag
interaction when that is pushed outside
of the frame. [music] This clip content
helps us in this case. So I take that
put it inside of screen. Then I take
dynamic island here. I put that inside
[music] of screen as well. Push it to
the top.
Not much it down a bit like that.
Doesn't have to be perfect. So now we
have something like this. We've gathered
all our elements. Let's take this, drag
it down here. And let's create the first
interaction. So what we can see here
immediately is and if we go back to the
animation this dynamic island should be
shrunken down as a first step. So let's
take this take the different elements.
I'll actually decrease those elements in
size. So I hit K which is the scale
tool. And this is an amazing tool. It
helps you scale everything. So you can
take whatever you have [music] and just
hit K and then resize it. and everything
within it, even though it's text, even
though whatever it is, it's going to
scale up or down. So, I take the K tool,
drag it down in size, do the same for
this, drag it down in size, like that.
And the reason I'm doing that is because
if we rewatch this together, drag
interaction. Boom. When I click here,
you can see how these things kind of
bubble up. So if we watch it again, the
text bubbles up, the size of the cover
art bubbles up, and these play items,
and the progress bar bubbles up as well.
They go from smaller size to bigger
size. So I decrease the size here,
decrease the size there as well. I'll
change this height of the whole frame to
48. I'll move these to the center. Move
this in here. Move this up here.
decrease the size or the width. Grab the
items and place them.
Center them a bit. Then I'll take the
image and the text and fade them out as
well. Now I think we have something that
looks similar. Yes. Okay. So this is the
entry state. We have this player and
what we want to happen here is on drag
should decrease in size and it should
blur out. So I copy the frame. I target
this music player container. Hit
prototype. So I'll add an interaction to
this screen on drag. [music] Smart
animate custom spring. And yeah, let's
say 350. And I think this is good. Maybe
150 35. And you can see how that
decreases the time here. So this is
something you should play around with to
find the right kind of timing and the
right kind of stiffness, damping, mass,
etc. But I think this is what we want in
terms of animation. So I'll take the K
tool again. Sorry, not on the whole
thing, but on the music player
container. And I'll hold down shift and
option so that we center it. We decrease
the size from all sides. Drag it down to
that size maybe. And I'll go into
design, set layer blur to 32. You can
play around with this as well. Maybe
even 56. Now let's look at this flow
one.
That looks good. It works the same as in
the first prototype. So that's the first
interaction. Now let's bump it down
[music] one step. The second
interaction. Now we go from this dynamic
island not having any content except for
the camera to having this little avatar
or cover art with this waveform as well.
I'll take this screen. I'll duplicate
that. We'll increase the width of this.
Maybe that's a bit too wide. 256 maybe.
I'll take the wave. Push it in here.
Something like that. And let me see here
if we actually gave the wave opacity. We
didn't. So this has to be zero in
opacity as well. Then we have the image
which is going to go full opacity when
we click this. Now I made another
mistake here because I set the full
image plus text to have zero in opacity.
But we actually in this instance just
want the image to appear. So we should
separate those. So instead of having
zero opacity on this group or this auto
layout, I'll set it to these individual
items, maybe like that. So I'll go back
to the image plus text and set that
[music] to zero opacity. I'll also just
for this to look better, make it
rounded, even though Apple didn't have
it rounded in their version. I'll
decrease the size of this whole thing.
again using K something like that maybe.
And now the pixels aren't going to be
perfect here. Once again, this is just
to show you how the animations work.
Okay. So there we have it expanded. So
now if we click on this frame, take
prototype, drag it over here after delay
this time 1 millisecond because we want
it to occur as fast as possible. Smart
animate. And let's try this same
animation. I do think though that we
want some bounce in it. So I'll take
this little ball here, this circle, and
I'll create this slight little curve
like this, which gives us a bounce. So
we have that bounce. Now let's go back
to the animation and see how it looks.
Oh, can you see what happens here?
In the first animation, something
happens. These things appear. So we see
the waveform, we see the cover art, we
see the text. This is because we changed
the opacity of this block in this screen
or in this frame and in this frame, but
we didn't change it here. This should be
100% opacity here and zero on these. We
go back
and I missed one more thing. The waves
here should also be zero opacity. And I
bring them to the middle.
Now we're talking. Boom. Let's get to
the last step here. Now we want the
click interaction that expands this
whole thing. So we go from this little
dynamic island little pill form to this
bigger thing that gives us some more
flexibility in terms of what types of
buttons and things we can include
because we have more space. Let's
duplicate this frame again and let's
start by expanding the height or
increasing the height. So maybe
something like this. Let's say 350. I'll
drag this out to the sides as well. Take
this. I'll add opacity to the text as
well. Hit K again to save some time.
Increase the size of it. I go into this
and change the border radius so it's a
rectangle with some radius instead.
Let's say 24. And as you can see, I'm
really just freebasing here. Not giving
it correct paddings or anything like
that because once again, this tutorial
is about the animation. So, push this to
the side. Then we had the player. This
is going to increase in size as well.
Maybe something like that. And the
height of this doesn't have to be quite
this much. Maybe something like this.
The camera is going to change between
the animations. It wouldn't do that in
real life because it's hardware. It's
going to stay put. So there we have that
end state. Okay. Now, if we go to the
previous frame, hit prototype, go to
this dynamic island, we drag onto the
next frame, on click, smart animate, and
let's say 500 here, maybe. And when we
click this, it's going to go back to
that previous frame. Now, let's see.
Drag. Boom. Click.
And it works. Now, if you want to dig
deeper into animations, check out these
videos here. And until the next one,
take care and we'll talk soon.
